3	Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Main Page
Welcome to Wikipedia
From today's featured article
Victoria (1819–1901) was Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland from 20 June 1837 until her death, the longest reign in British history to that point. Victoria was the only child of Prince Edward, Duke of Kent and Strathearn (the fourth son of George III), and Princess Victoria of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld. Edward died in 1820, and Victoria eventually inherited the throne aged 18 since Edward's elder brothers had all died without surviving legitimate issue. Victoria married her first cousin Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha in 1840. Their children married into royal families across Europe, and Victoria was dubbed "the grandmother of Europe". After Albert's death in 1861, Victoria went into deep mourning and avoided public appearances. As a result, British republicanism gained strength. Her popularity later recovered, and she became a national icon. Her Golden and Diamond Jubilees were times of national celebration. Victoria was succeeded by her son Edward VII. (Full article...)
Did you know ...
In the news
On this day
September 24: Heritage Day in South Africa; Independence Day in Guinea-Bissau (1973)
Today's featured picture
Aegirine is a member of the clinopyroxene group of inosilicate minerals. It is the sodium endmember of the aegirine–augite series, and has the chemical formula NaFeSi2O6, in which the iron is present as the ion Fe3+. Aegirine occurs as dark green monoclinic prismatic crystals. This photograph depicts aegirine crystals with minor feldspar found at Mount Malosa in Zomba, Malawi.
Photograph credit: Ivar Leidus
Other areas of Wikipedia
Wikipedia's sister projects
Wikipedia is written by volunteer editors and hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other volunteer projects:
Wikipedia languages
This Wikipedia is written in English. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below.
